# 第45个主日 第三部分 主祷文



Q & A 116
Q. Why do Christians need to pray?

A. Because prayer is the most important part

of the thankfulness God requires of us.1

And also because God gives his grace and Holy Spirit
only to those who pray continually and groan inwardly,

asking God for these gifts
and thanking God for them.2

1 Ps. 50:14-15; 116:12-19; 1 Thess. 5:16-18
2 Matt. 7:7-8; Luke 11:9-13

Q & A 117
Q. What is the kind of prayer
that pleases God and that he listens to?

A. First, we must pray from the heart

to no other than the one true God,

revealed to us in his Word,

asking for everything God has commanded us to ask for.1

Second, we must fully recognize our need and misery,

so that we humble ourselves in God’s majestic presence.2

Third, we must rest on this unshakable foundation:

even though we do not deserve it,
God will surely listen to our prayer

because of Christ our Lord.

That is what God promised us in his Word.3

1 Ps. 145:18-20; John 4:22-24; Rom. 8:26-27; James 1:5; 1 John 5:14-15
2 2 Chron. 7:14; Ps. 2:11; 34:18; 62:8; Isa. 66:2; Rev. 4
3 Dan. 9:17-19; Matt. 7:8; John 14:13-14; 16:23; Rom. 10:13; James 1:6

Q & A 118
Q. What did God command us to pray for?

A. Everything we need, spiritually and physically,1
as embraced in the prayer
Christ our Lord himself taught us.

1 James 1:17; Matt. 6:33

Q & A 119
Q. What is this prayer?

A. Our Father in heaven,
hallowed be your name.
Your kingdom come.
Your will be done,

on earth as it is in heaven.

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debts,

as we also have forgiven our debtors.

And do not bring us to the time of trial,

but rescue us from the evil one.*

For the kingdom

and the power
and the glory are yours forever.

Amen.1**

1 Matt. 6:9-13; Luke 11:2-4
*This text of the Lord's Prayer is from the New Revised Standard Version in keeping with the use of the NRSV throughout this edition of the catechism. Most biblical scholars will agree that it is an accurate translation of the Greek text and carries virtually the same meaning as the more traditional text of the Lord's Prayer
**Earlier and better manuscripts of Matthew 6 omit the words “For the kingdom and … Amen.”